# Waste World
Visualizing amount of waste generated by countries in a 3 dimensional globe
This is a final prototype for Quantitative Project, a repository for Major Studio 1 class / data visualization program 2022 at Parsons School of Design.


## Concept + Data

### Goal 
**Advocating site visitors on reducing energy, natural resources and food consumption.**

The idea is to reimagine the world that would show how it could be if we consider number of waste generated by each country and compare them in a global scale- in 3 dimensions.

### Data Sets
- [Merge.Geojson](https://github.com/Chayanitoey/MajorStudio1/blob/FinalPrototype/Data/merge__test.geojson) - contains the geometric shapes of countries and which is merged with  Total Json file ( used by 80% of the visualization on the page) 
- [TotalWasteData.Json](https://github.com/Chayanitoey/MajorStudio1/blob/FinalPrototype/Data/TotalWastedata.json)  - contains total waste by categories ( food, hazard, electronic waste) per country. This is mainly used for the country card on the right side. 


## Process ( total ~ 28 hrs) 
** For design process please refer to [design&prototype branch documentation](https://github.com/Chayanitoey/MajorStudio1/tree/Design%26Prototype) - concept 1 is chosen for this iteration. ** 

- Data : Json data (pulled from UN portal with a little data wrangling work + merged with geolocation file)  and GeoJson( randomly found this data on Github, then merge the original file with my json file(filtered to only show total waste data , lat , long )  (~4hrs)
- WebGL  : Mainly use globe Gl which is a UI component using three.js & [webGL](https://globe.gl/)  ( ~6 hrs) 
- Javascript : using DOM selector to populate data sets, creating functions that link all the elements all together ( ~ 15 hours) 
- CSS : styling & aligning the webpage with the styleguide plan that I created last week (~3hrs)

## Demo
[Link to demo](https://chayanitoey.github.io/MajorStudio1/) 


## Next Steps + Key Learnings

### Next steps :

- **Adding stacked bar chart** to present the proportion of total waste generated in each country or even show more complex data i.e. ‘food waste’ data sets; showing waste from different activities.
- **Selected country showing in another color** (so it’s different/ distinct from other geometric shapes) This can be done by binding React.js (however, I’m not familiar with this JS library) 

### Key Learnings :

- It would be more helpful to **do due diligence on the data** before deciding on using the data set; I found that the data from UN portal seems to be overwhelmingly biased and may not represent facts. 
- Iterating more / improving  on the design concept before jump to the coding process. 
